Q1.	What do you know about Java?
Q2.	What are the supported platforms by Java Programming Language?
Q3.	List any five features of Java?
Q4.	Why is Java Architectural Neutral?
Q5.	What is a singleton class? Give a practical example of its usage.
Q6.	What are the access modifiers in Java?
Q7.	What is are packages?
Q8.	What is meant by Inheritance and what are its advantages?
Q9.	What is the difference between superclass and subclass?
Q10. What is an abstract class?
Q11. What are the states associated in the thread?
Q12. What is synchronization?
Q13. What is deadlock?
Q14. What is an applet?
Q15. What is the lifecycle of an applet?
Q16. What is a layout manager and what are different types of layout managers available in java AWT?
Q17. What is JDBC?
Q18. What is the Java API?
Q19. Why there are no global variables in Java?
Q20. What are Encapsulation, Inheritance and Polymorphism?
Q21. What is the use of bin and lib in JDK?
Q22. What is method overloading and method overriding?
Q23. What is the difference between this() and super()?
Q24. What is Domain Naming Service(DNS)?
Q25. What are checked exceptions?
Q26. What are runtime exceptions?
Q27. What is the difference between error and an exception?
Q28. What is mutable object and immutable object?
Q29. What is the purpose of Void class?
Q30. What is nested class?
Q31. What are different types of access modifiers?
Q32. What is the difference between Reader/Writer and InputStream/Output Stream?
Q33. What is servlet?
Q34. What is Constructor?
Q35. What is an Iterator ?
Q36. What is the difference between the prefix and postfix forms of the ++ operator?
Q37. What is the difference between a constructor and a method?
Q38. What is the purpose of apache tomcat?
Q39. Briefly explain daemon thread.
Q40. What is UNICODE?
Q41. Can a constructor have different name than a Class name in Java?
Q42. What will be the output of Round(3.7) and Ceil(3.7)?
Q43. Can we use goto in Java to go to a particular line?
Q44. Which object oriented Concept is achieved by using overloading and overriding?
Q45. Is it possible to define a method in Java class but provide it’s implementation in the code of another language like C?
Q46. Can a variable be local and static at the same time?
Q47. In a class implementing an interface, can we change the value of any variable defined in the interface?
Q48. Is it correct to say that due to garbage collection feature in Java, a java program never goes out of memory?
Q49. Can we have any other return type than void for main method?
Q50. In Java thread programming, which method is a must implementation for all threads?
Q51. Can an Interface extend another Interface?
Q52. How objects are stored in Java?
Q53. What happens if an exception is not handled in a program?
Q54. I have multiple constructors defined in a class. Is it possible to call a constructor from another constructor’s body?
Q55. What’s meant by anonymous class?
Q56. Is there a way to increase the size of an array after its declaration?
Q57. If an application has multiple classes in it, is it okay to have a main method in more than one class?
Q58. What is a Local class in Java?
Q59. String and StringBuffer both represent String objects. Can we compare String and StringBuffer in Java?
Q60. Can we cast any other type to Boolean Type with type casting?


Q61. Design a GUI application in which the user enters a number in the text field and on
clicking the button the sum of the digits of the number should be displayed in a
label.
Hint : Suppose user enters 123 the output should be 6(1+2+3).
Q62. Design a GUI application to accept a String from the user in a text field and print
using option pane whether it is a palindrome or not.
Hint ABBA is a palindrome.
Q63. Design a GUI application to accept the cost price and selling price form the user in
two text fields then calculate the profit or loss incurred.
Q64. Design a GUI application to accept a character in a text field and print in a label if
that character is a vowel: a, e, i, o, or u. The application should be case sensitive.
Q65. Design a GUI application that repeatedly accepts numbers in a option pane and once
the typed number is 0 the maximum and minimum of all numbers typed are
displayed.
Q66. Design a GUI application in java to convert temperature from Celsius to Fahrenheit
or vice versa using radio buttons and two text fields
Q67. Design a GUI application in java to convert kilograms into grams, litres into
milliliters, rupees into paisa using combobox and text fields.
Q68. A book publishing house decided to go in for computerization. The database will be
maintained at the back end but you have to design the front end for the company.
You have to accept book code, Title, Author and Quantity sold from the user. The
Price will be generated depending upon the book code. Net price should be
calculated on the basis of the discount given.
Bookseller - 25%
School - 20%
Customer - 5%
Q69. Create a GUI application to accept a string and display it in reverse order using the
substring() method.
Q70. Create a GUI application to create random whole numbers between 2 float numbers
input by the user.
Q71. Create a GUI application to accept 3 numbers in separate text fields and display
their sum, average, maximum or minimum after rounding the results on the click of
appropriate buttons (There are four separate buttons - one for sum, one for
average, one for maximum and one for minimum). The result should be displayed in
the fourth text field.
Q72. Create a GUI application to accept the date (as 1), month (as a number like 3 for
March) and year (as 2010) in separate text fields and display the date in the format:
dd/mm/yy. Take care of the following points while creating the application:
Verify the date input before displaying it in the suggested format and display
error messages wherever applicable
The date is accepted as 1 (for the first of any month) but should be displayed as
01 in the final format.
The year is accepted as 2010 but displayed as 10 in the final format.
Q73. Create an application to accept two strings - First Name and Last name from the user
and display the message Welcome with the complete name of the user.
Q74. Create an application to accept the radius of a circle, calculate the area and
circumference and display the results in a message box after rounding off the area
and circumference to an integer number.
Q75. Modify application to make sure that the user has not input the complete name in
the first name text field.
Q76. Modify the Case Changer application developed in the lesson to display the input
text in Title case using the substring(), toLowerCase() and toUpperCase() methods.